## Data Types
### Regulated
-  Rules of handling the data may be set by a 3rd party (government, ...)
-  For example: credit card data must be stored in a way that complies with the payment card industry.
### Trade Secret
-  Only known to the organization, really valuable and hunted by other organizations
### Intellectual Property
-  Unlike trade secret, this data is publicly  Accessible, but it's protected using copyright & trademark restrictions.
### Legal Information
-  Provide information that should be public, while protecting info that must be private, e.g.:
	-  In gen, Court record are public
	-  But its details may contain **PII (Personally Identifiable Information)** & other sensitive info.
-  Private data may be stored in a court's database, while public info in some public space.
### Financial Data
-  Considered sensitive information, and shouldn't be accessed by anyone
-  Includes Internal Company Financial Details, Payment Records, credit card data, ...
### Human-Readable
-  Easily Readable & Comprehended by humans, e.g. text, ...
### Non-Human Readable
-  Not so easily readable, not straight forward, e.g. encoded data, Images, ...

> <b><u>Note:</u></b> Some formats are hybrid, e.g. CSV, XML, JSON, Barcodes with numbers, ...
## Data Classifications
### Sensitive
#### Proprietary
-  Property or unique to the company, e.g. trade secrets, ...
#### PII (Personally Identifiable Information)
-  Information that could tie back to an individual, e.g. name, date of birth, biometric info, ...
#### PHI (Protected Health Information)
-  Health Information associated with an individual, e.g. health status, healthcare records, ...
### Confidential
-  Very sensitive, requires permission/approval.
### Public / Unclassified
-  No restrictions on accessing the data
### Private / Classified / Restricted
-  Needs more information than usual
-  Usually needs to sign an **NDA (Non-Disclosure Agreement)**
### Critical
-  Data that should always be accessible.
-  Procedures must be setup to ensure their availability.
## General Data Considerations
### Data States
#### Data at Rest
-  Generally data stored on a storage device, e.g. HDD, SSD, Flash drive, ...
-  Encryption is optional, if encrypted, various ways of encryption work on it:
	-  Whole Disk Encryption
	-  Database Encryption
	-  File or Folder Level Encryption
-  We Can customize their permissions to manage authorization & who has access to the data.
#### Data at transit (motion)
-  Data transmitted across the network, passes by different nodes, and can be viewed by practically everyone.
-  Must be protected using firewalls/IPS to filter bad traffic, or encryption/VPN using IPsec/TLS
#### Data in use
-  Data that is actively being used by the system, such as RAM, CPU Registers, & Cache
-  Generally not encrypted for performance reasons, which makes attackers target it.
### Data Sovereignty
-  Data is stored in actual physical places (data centers, ...), which follow the countries' rules & regulations
-  Treatment of data depends on the rules of the host country
-  For example, the European [GDPR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation) Prohibits storing data of EU citizens outside of the EU.
### Geolocation
-  The methods of localizing some entity by its data, which can be used to determine permissions, i.e. content masking
## Methods to secure data
### Geographic restrictions
 -  Geofencing: Blocking or giving access to data depending on location.
 -  IP Address alone isn't enough, we may use additional measures, e.g. GPS, 802.11 Wireless (Locating BSSID/SSID) , ...
### Protecting Data
-  Data is critical to the business, with it being everywhere (storage drive, network, CPU, ...), so appropriate protection methods must be applied, as not all entities deserve same permissions.
### Encryption
### Hashing
### Obfuscation
Makes something normally understandable very difficult to understand, e.g. obfuscating source code, ...
### Masking
-  Partially Hide data to protect it, e.g. only showing last 4 characters with credit card number
-  Can be applied using a lot of techniques, e.g. Substitution, shuffling, ... 
### Tokenization
-  Replace sensitive data (e.g. credit card) number with a **temporary** token
-  Once captured while in transit, it's already too late
-  Generally doesn't use encryption, hashing, ....; so no relation between original data & token
### Segmentation
-  Centralizing databases is risky, if attack happens, **ALL** data will affected
-  Separate data into different places in order to:
	-  Put flexible & dynamic security measures into each zone depending on its importance.
	-  Hackers need to hack each database to get all the data.
### Permission Restrictions
-  Put security into accounts, tighten authentication
-  Manage Group permissions accordingly.