Audits (internal or 3<sup>rd</sup>) are essential to ensure effectiveness of policies and procedures, find vulnerabilities before attackers, examine IT infrastructure, software, ...
# Attestation
Often used in conjunction with audit, an auditor provides an opinion of truth (attestation) of a company's cybersecurity posture by auditing it
# Internal
Audits done internally by the company, specifically the **audit committee**, which also oversees risk management activities, to verify **their compliance** with regulatory or industry requirements.
Audits usually start by **the audit committee** compiling **self-assessments** done by the company of their policies and procedures to evaluate the company's **compliance** status.
# External
Done by independent 3<sup>rd</sup> party auditors, they do the researching and compiling reports part to assess the company's compliance and security posture and suggest improvements.
Type/frequency of audits depend on the regulation audited against.
# Penetration Testing
## Physical
Aims to not only test the company's digital security posture, but also physical, as it's very important for the entire cybersecurity posture, e.g. entering the building without a key, gaining unauthorized access to servers and critical infrastructure, ...
## Perspective
- **Offensive**: The red team, which attacks and looks for vulnerabilities to exploit.
- **Defensive**: The blue team, which identifies those attacks and stops them.
- **Integrated**: The red-blue relation can be used to create a cycle, constant attack and defense, for constant improvement and hardening.
## Working Knowledge
The amount of starting knowledge of a penetration tester is very important in a penetration test, it is divided into 3 types:
- **Known Environment (White Box)**: Full disclosure of in-scope systems.
- **Partially known environment (Gray Box)**: Mix of known and unknown, may be used to direct and orient the pentester.
- **Unknown Environment (Black Box)**: No information provided at all, a "blind" test.
## Reconnaissance
Regardless of the amount of starting knowledge in a penetration test, hackers must always look for more information to ensure readiness before exploitation and to orient and direct their efforts better.
At the end of the reconnaissance they can create network maps, have extensive information, ...
The reconnaissance process is usually divided into 2 types:
- **Passive Reconnaissance**: Gather information without actively probing the target network, e.g. social media, online/public forums/sources, dumpster diving, ...
- **Active Reconnaissance**: More direct, discoverable method of reconnaissance, we probe the network, e.g. scans, fingerprinting, ...